Add Testing pages (#37)
andrewnicols/dinodevdocs: general/development/process/testing.md

---
title: Testing
description: All the information related to testing during the Moodle development.
tags:
  - Processes
  - Core development
  - Testing
  - Quality assurance
---

This page is the top level page regarding all testing activities around the Moodle project. Testing is essential to make sure that developed code does what it is meant to do, without causing new problems.

## Manual testing

### Code testing

Code is tested as part of reviewing at some key parts of the [Moodle development process](/general/development/process).

- Development. The developer of some code should test their own work on a wide variety of environments for correctness and performance
- Peer review. Developers often test each others work early in the development process

> - Integration reviews. Our integration team tests code weekly while they are evaluating suitability for integration into Moodle.

Author: Done

:::info More info
[[Testing instructions guide]]
:::

### Integration functional testing

> There is an external team to manually test the functionality of all the issues that have been integrated each week. Developers submitting patches **should always cover the patch with unit tests and/or Behat behavioural tests**. Still, all issues are tested by a human and it is usually worth it.

Author: <3 I've changed the first sentence and removed the last one because it's also unclear for me :-S

:::info More info

> [Testing of integrated issues](/general/development/process/testing-integrated-issues)

Author: Replaced with a similar approach than the previous one: We recommend that you follow the [Testing of integrated issues](/general/development/process/testing-integrated-issues) to get a better understanding of how testing integrated issues works.

:::

### QA testing

> Volunteer testers from the Moodle community systematically try each feature in Moodle and test that it works in the current version of the Moodle code. These tests are repeated in series of cycles, usually 4 weeks before a major release, once all major features have landed.

Reviewer: I would swap the order of this sentence:

```suggestion
Once all major features for a new Moodle release have landed, Moodle performs a Quality Assurance test cycle. This test cycle is typically performed by volunteers from the Moodle community who systematically test each available feature to ensure that it still works as intended. This process typically lasts 4-6 weeks and happens once per Major release.
```
